# Baremetal F' project

This project was auto-generated by the F' utility tool. 

F´ (F Prime) is a component-driven framework that enables rapid development and deployment of spaceflight and other embedded software applications.
**Please Visit the F´ Website:** https://nasa.github.io/fprime/.

# Table of Contents
  1. [Setup](#setup)
  2. [Building and Running the BaseDeployment Application](#building-and-running-the-basedeployment-application)
  3. [Building and Running the BaremetalReference and RadioPassthrough Applications](#building-and-running-the-baremetalreference-and-radiopassthrough-applications)

# Setup

### Install arduino-cli
```sh
$ curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arduino/arduino-cli/master/install.sh | BINDIR=~/.local/bin sh

```

### Install arduino-cli-wrapper
```sh
$ cd ~/.local/bin
$ git clone https://github.com/SterlingPeet/arduino-cli-cmake-wrapper.git
$ cd arduino-cli-cmake-wrapper
$ git checkout update/refactor
$ pip install .
```

### Add `~/.local/bin` to PATH
```sh
$ sudo nano ~/.bashrc
```

At the end of the file, add the following line:
```
export PATH=~/.local/bin:$PATH
```

Save and close the file. Then run:
```sh
$ source ~/.bashrc
```

### Setup arduino-cli for Teensy boards
```sh
$ arduino-cli config init
$ sudo nano ~/.arduino15/arduino-cli.yaml
```

Add the following URLs to the `board_manager` section:
```
board_manager:
  additional_urls:
    - https://www.pjrc.com/teensy/package_teensy_index.json
    - https://adafruit.github.io/arduino-board-index/package_adafruit_index.json
```

Download the new board package:
```sh
$ arduino-cli core update-index
$ arduino-cli core install teensy:avr
$ arduino-cli core install adafruit:samd
```

### Adding udev rules for Linux only
Add udev rules. Save the `.rules` files located in `./docs/rules` into `/etc/udev/rules.d/`.
```sh
$ sudo cp docs/rules/* /etc/udev/rules.d/
```

### Generate/Build Application

In order to build any other F´ application, we first need to generate a build directory. 
This can be done with the following commands:

```sh
$ fprime-util generate
```

The next step is to build the RadioPassthrough application's code.
```sh
$ fprime-util build
```

To generate/build for a specific device, append the device name to the end of the above commands. By default, the application will build for the teensy41 device.
These devices have been tested:
  - teensy41
  - featherM0

# Programming and Running the BaseDeployment Application
The goal is to be able to establish a connection bewteen a microcontroller and fprime-gds. From there, you will be able to enable/disable the LED blinking as well as adjusting the blinking interval. This base deployment utilizes minimal F' components and an LED blinker component.

## Uploading hex file for the Teensy
The Teensyduino application should have appeared after running `fprime-util build`. Choose the hex file to load into Teensyduino located in `./build-artifacts/BaseDeployment/bin/`. Manually press the reset button on the Teensy to upload the program.

## Uploading binary file for the Feather M0
Double press on the reset button on the Feather to set it to programming mode. Then run the following commands below.

```sh
$ ~/.arduino15/packages/adafruit/tools/bossac/1.8.0-48-gb176eee/bossac -i -d --port=ttyACM0 -U -i --offset=0x2000 -w -v ./build-artifacts/featherM0/BaseDeployment/bin/BaseDeployment.bin -R

```
Note:
  - If you have more than one device connected, or if you are using a different OS, `ttyACM0` may differ for your system.

## Using GDS over serial
```sh
$ fprime-gds -n --dictionary ./build-artifacts/YOUR_DEVICE/BaseDeployment/dict/BaseDeploymentTopologyAppDictionary.xml --comm-adapter uart --uart-device /dev/ttyACM0 --uart-baud 115200
```
Note:
  - If you have more than one device connected, or if you are using a different OS, `/dev/ttyACM0` may differ for your system.
  - Change `YOUR_DEVICE` to the respective device. (i.e. `teensy41`, `featherM0`)

# Programming and Running the BaremetalReference and RadioPassthrough Applications
You will need two microcontrollers: one that will run the BaremetalReference and the other for the RadioPassthrough. The goal is to command the BaremetalReference deployment wirelessly from the RadioPassthrough deployment using a radio and fprime-gds. The BaremetalReference deployment is a reference of components that spacecrafts are expected to have, such as the LED blinker and radio components.

## Uploading hex file for the Teensy
The Teensyduino application should have appeared after running `fprime-util build`. Choose the appropriate hex file to load into Teensyduino, either BaremetalReference or RadioPassthrough, located in `./build-artifacts/BareMetalReference/bin/` or `./build-artifacts/RadioPassthrough/bin/`, respectively. Manually press the reset button on the Teensy to upload the program.

## Uploading binary file for the Feather M0
Double press on the reset button on the Feather to set it to programming mode. Then run the following commands below for the respective port. There are two binary files: one for the Baremetal Reference and another for the Radio Passthrough. 
```sh
$ ~/.arduino15/packages/adafruit/tools/bossac/1.8.0-48-gb176eee/bossac -i -d --port=ttyACM0 -U -i --offset=0x2000 -w -v ./build-artifacts/featherM0/RadioPassthrough/bin/RadioPassthrough.bin -R
$ ~/.arduino15/packages/adafruit/tools/bossac/1.8.0-48-gb176eee/bossac -i -d --port=ttyACM1 -U -i --offset=0x2000 -w -v ./build-artifacts/featherM0/BaremetalReference/bin/BaremetalReference.bin -R

```
Note:
  - If you have other devices connected, or if you are using a different OS, `ttyACM0` and/or `ttyACM1` may differ for your system.

## Using GDS over serial
```sh
$ fprime-gds -n --dictionary ./build-artifacts/YOUR_DEVICE/BaremetalReference/dict/BaremetalReferenceTopologyAppDictionary.xml --comm-adapter uart --uart-device /dev/ttyACM0 --uart-baud 115200
```
Note:
  - If you have more than one device connected, or if you are using a different OS, `/dev/ttyACM0` may differ for your system.
  - Change `YOUR_DEVICE` to the respective device of the Baremetal Reference. (i.e. `teensy41`, `featherM0`)
